Tags? No! It's Data Components! (#75)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/items/datacomponents.md

# Data Components

Data components are key-value pairs within a map used to store data on an `ItemStack`. Each piece of data, such as firework explosions or tools, are stored as actual objects on the stack, making the values visible and operable without having to dynamically transform a general encoded instance (e.g., `CompoundTag`, `JsonElement`).

## `DataComponentType`

Each data component has an associated `DataComponentType<T>`, where `T` is the component value type. The `DataComponentType` represents a key to reference the stored component value along with some codecs to handle reading and writing to the disk and network, if desired.

A list of existing components can be found within `DataComponents`.

### Creating Custom Data Components

The component value associated with the `DataComponentType` must implement `hashCode` and `equals` and should be considered **immutable** when stored.

:::note

> For ease of convenience, a record cann be used for the component value. Record fields are immutable and implement `hashCode` and `equals`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Component values can very easily be implemented using a record. Record fields are immutable and implement `hashCode` and `equals`.
```

```java
public class ExampleHolder implements MutableDataComponentHolder {

    public static final Codec<ExampleHolder> CODEC = RecordCodecBuilder.create(instance ->
        instance.group(
            Codec.INT.fieldOf("data").forGetter(ExampleHolder::getData),
            DataCopmonentPatch.CODEC.optionalFieldOf("components", DataComponentPatch.EMPTY).forGetter(holder -> holder.components.asPatch())
        ).apply(instance, ExampleHolder::new)
    );

    public static final StreamCodec<RegistryFriendlyByteBuf, ExampleHolder> STREAM_CODEC = StreamCodec.composite(
        ByteBufCodecs.INT, ExampleHolder::getData,
        DataComponentPatch.STREAM_CODEC, holder -> holder.components.asPatch(),
        ExampleHolder::new
    );

    // ...

    public ExampleHolder(int data, DataComponentPatch patch) {
        this.data = data;
        this.components = PatchedDataComponentMap.fromPatch(
            // The prototype map to apply to
            DataComponentMap.EMPTY,
            // The associated patches
            patch
        );
    }

    // ...
}
```

> When to send the holder across the network or persist to disk is an exercise left to the reader.

Reviewer: This just sounds bad. This should be something along the lines of "Actually syncing and writing to disk must be done manually" and have a link to the networking section.
